README.md, before:

Panda example application, PHP
==============================

An example PHP web app that uses [**Panda**](http://pandastream.com) to encode videos and play them on a page.

Also available: the simple [PHP Panda client library](http://github.com/newbamboo/panda_client_php) that this application is based on.


Setup
-----

This application requires **PHP 5.2** or later. It's been tested successfully with **Apache 2**. Make sure of the following:

By default, Panda will encode your videos using the H.264 codec, playable with the HTML5 &lt;VIDEO&gt; tag. This example will use this to play your videos.

Additionally make sure of the following:

* These required PHP modules are installed: **php5-curl**, **php5-mcrypt**
* Copy the provided **lib/config.inc.php.example** into a new file **lib/config.inc.php** and fill it out with the appropriate info

And that should be it.


What does it do anyway?
-----------------------

The application will initially show a simple form where you can specify a video file to upload from your computer. Once uploaded, it will ask you to wait a bit until all is encoded. You'll have to reload the page yourself until this is done.

Finally, the video will appear embedded on the page, using a Flash player. If you wish to try again with another video, a link is provided to restart the process.


Notes
-----

Uploads are done using [panda_uploader](http://github.com/newbamboo/panda_uploader).

Commit message:

Removed reference to Flash player. Added reminder about using a modern browser

README.md, after:

Panda example application, PHP
==============================

An example PHP web app that uses [**Panda**](http://pandastream.com) to encode videos and play them on a page.

Also available: the simple [PHP Panda client library](http://github.com/newbamboo/panda_client_php) that this application is based on.


Setup
-----

This application requires **PHP 5.2** or later. It's been tested successfully with **Apache 2**. Make sure of the following:

By default, Panda will encode your videos using the H.264 codec, playable with the HTML5 &lt;VIDEO&gt; tag. This example will use this to play your videos. Make sure you use a compatible browser to watch it.

Additionally make sure of the following:

* These required PHP modules are installed: **php5-curl**, **php5-mcrypt**
* Copy the provided **lib/config.inc.php.example** into a new file **lib/config.inc.php** and fill it out with the appropriate info

And that should be it.


What does it do anyway?
-----------------------

The application will initially show a simple form where you can specify a video file to upload from your computer. Once uploaded, it will ask you to wait a bit until all is encoded. You'll have to reload the page yourself until this is done.

Finally, the video will appear embedded on the page. If you wish to try again with another video, a link is provided to restart the process.


Notes
-----

Uploads are done using [panda_uploader](http://github.com/newbamboo/panda_uploader).
